Alligator gar, or Atractosteus
spatula, is a species of fish with
fossils tracing its existence to the 
early Cretaceous Period. These 
torpedo-shaped fish have not changed
many of the morphological traits of 
their ancestors. Unlike many other
fishes, it can breathe air, which 
allows them to populate areas 
dangerously low in oxygen for other
water-breathers. Its scales form
incredibly tough layers that are
nearly impenetrable; when under
attack, these scales defend well
against any aggressors. 

Similar to the unrelated nautilus,
alligator gars live long and mature
late, and after which, they spawn an
obscene amount of eggs depending on 
the size of the female. While they 
appear passive and sluggish, these 
little demons are actually voracious
beasts when it comes to food, just 
like the animal they were named 
after. Gars are primarily 
piscivorous night predators, 
sometimes eating water fowls and 
small mammals at the surface. They 
lie in wait below the surface and 
wait for prey to come within reach, 
and then they lunge forward and grab 
their prey in a sweeping motion 
before impaling the poor sap with 
its teeth.
