Allosaurus, the "Different Lizard,"
provides a "different" example of a
ferocious predator than that of the
Tyrannosaurus. Contrasting with the
T. rex, the Allosaurus measured only
three meters tall, just under twice
the height of a human. It was still
quite long at a maximum of 9-10 
meters. Its notable skull ridges had
several functions, such as acting as
sun-shades and display items.
Curiously, many skull fossils found
exhibit odd imperfections, providing
valuable insight into the paleo-
pathology of dinosaurs and its 
possible effects on creatures.

Living at the top of its food chain,
the menacing claws and jaws of
the Allosaurus made it quite the
predator long before the time
of the Tyrannosaurus. Abundantly
found in the Morrison Formation, it
survived by preying upon large 
herbivores and possibly even some 
predators. It prowled the semiarid 
environments of present day America 
and Portugal alongside other 
predators like Ceratosaurus and 
Torvosaurus, but the three likely 
held separate niches. Living from
the Kimmeridgian to early Tithonian 
eras of the Jurassic, Allosaurus had
a delectable selection of prey. 
Paleontologists have found evidence 
that it hunted Stegosaurus and 
other members of its family for food 
and likely scavenged sauropod 
carcasses.
