Ankylosaurus, the "Fused Lizard,"
is a dinosaur that all tanks could 
take some notes from. At about eight 
meters long and over one meter tall,
the Ankylosaurus put every part of
its hefty body to work in protecting
itself. Its armor consisted of 
massive knobs and boney plates
embedded in the skin called
osteoderms. These osteoderms were 
light and sturdy, and they were
highly resistant to penetrative 
objects like the teeth of predators.
When it felt threatened, it employed 
its powerful tail club against other 
dinosaurs, oscillating its tail in
a hundred-degree motion. The
placement of the club at the end of 
the tail adds to its inertia, 
causing massive damage to opponents.

The Ankylosaurus lived in North
America during the late Cretaceous 
Period alongside fierce predators
and competition. Its incredible 
defense mechanisms protected it 
against massive carnivores like 
Tyrannosaurus. Ankylosauus occupied
a similar niche to herbivores like 
Triceratops, its wide mouth allowing
it to feed on a variety of low 
vegetation in its subtropical
floodplain environment. As the
largest known ankylosaurid, the
amount of food that passed through
its large digestive system would
have been immense. This hungry
herbivore would not have stripped
the region bare, though, because it
likely lived solitary as an adult.
