Arthropleura, the "Jointed Ribs,"
is an iconic Carboniferous arthropod
that was popularized by the TV
series 'Prehistoric Park.' This
giant millipede could grow to over
two meters long, taking it out of
the "creepy crawly" range and upgra-
ding it to "arthropod overlord."
Although intimidating in size, this
gentle giant was either an herbivore
(an animal that eats plants) or a
detritivore (an animal that eats
dead organisms). Scientists know
this because if Arthropleura was a
carnivore, it would have hard mouth
parts that would fossilize, but no
mouth fossils have been found. Even
though it didn't prey on other
animals, Arthropleura wasn't
defenseless; in addition to its
tough exoskeleton, it may have
secreted toxins just like its modern
day relatives!

Arthropleura thrived during the
Carboniferous Period of North
America and Scotland, scuttling
along the floor of the lush rain-
forests that the period is known
for. Arthropods were the dominant
life forms in these forests, allow-
ing animals like Arthropleura and
Meganeura to grow to colossal sizes.
Plants also reached new heights; the
horsetail Calamites and the scale
tree Lepidodendron each grew 30
meters tall! However, at the end of
the Carboniferous all of these huge
organisms perished as the life-
sustaining rainforests collapsed.