Diplocaulus, meaning "double caul,"
is a beloved critter with a unique
boomerang-shaped head! This meter-
long amphibian was described by E.
D. Cope in 1877, the first year of
the famous "Bone War" between Cope
and his colleage, O. C. Marsh. Today,
little Diplocaulus is the subject of
its own new "war" - some researchers
speculate that its horns sported skin
flaps that connect to its neck,
giving it a wider silhouette. 
However, most people depict Diplo-
caulus without this connective tissue
because no evidence for it has been
found. Many hypotheses about the 
function of its boomerang-head have
been put forward by paleontologists
since its discovery. One study 
suggested that its odd head created
lift, helping it to ascend and
descend in the water.

Diplocaulus inhabited the waterways 
of North America and Africa from the
late Carboniferous to the Permian
period. Fully aquatic, its diet
likely consisted of small fish.
Evidence shows that during the dry
season, Diplocaulus likely went into
estivation (a form of hibernation
that takes place over the summer).
Regardless, we know they dug burrows
for shelter, due to a fossilized
burrow of eight Diplocaulus curled
into balls! In a vivid display of
nature's brutality, this burrow was
raided by the famous Permian carni-
vore Dimetrodon, who killed and 
partially ate three juveniles.