Raphus cucullatus, the Dodo bird, is
an adorable and lovable flightless
bird that succumbed to the wild
colonization of man. Dutch sailors
first recorded the existence of the
bird in 1598 on the island of
Mauritius, which is east of
Madagascar. Over the course of the
next century, hunting by sailors and
invasive species drove it to
extinction less than one hundred 
years after the first encounter.
Unfortunately for the dodo,
humanity's selfish desire for land
and comfort clashed with the natural
order of Mauritius, endting this
beautiful species. Its extinction 
has helped call attention to 
humanity's growing involvement in
species extinction worldwide.

The dodo inhabited the woodland
areas around the coastline of 
Mauritius. Early accounts of by the
Dutch detail the bird's behavior. 
It was herbivorous, feeding on nuts, 
seeds, bulbs, and fruit. Though 
flightless, its small wings were 
likely used for display and balance. 
Its robust legs were strong and 
allowed it to move and maneuver
swiftly. It had an intense bite for
such an adorable animal, which it 
used for defense. Due to its 
unflinching nature, the settlers 
believed the bird to be stupid or
fearless. To some, the dodo's meat 
was unpalatable, but others viewed
it favorably despite toughness.
