Dryosaurus, the "Tree Lizard," was
a speedy little creature from the
late Jurassic that fans find
endearing due to its adorable looks.
With a maximum legnth of about four
meters and a height of two meters,
Dryosaurus was on the smaller side
during a time of titans. These small
creatures required a well-built body
to remain away from the wide maws of
predators. Its strong legs made it a
swift runner, and its stiff tail
served as an effective counter-
balance that allowed it to be
incredibly agile. Considering the
dangerous carnivores of the time,
Dryosaurus' speed was quite 
necessary to evade the likes of 
Ceratosaurus and Allosaurus.

Scampering across the semiarid
environments of what is now the
western United States, Dryosaurus
lived in forested habitats near
rivers and floodplains alongside
many famous titans, such as
Diplodocus and Stegosaurus. While
the mighty sauropods fed upon high
vegetation, Dryosaurus elected to
browse lower hanging plants for
sustenance. Like other ornithopod
dinosaurs, it had a beak on its
mouth that assisted in chewing plant
matter; in addition, its cheek
structure allowed it to hold food in
its mouth while chewing, like human
cheeks, preventing any unnecessary
food loss.
