Megalania, also known as Varanus 
priscus (which means "Ancient Lizard
Beast"), is a giant monitor lizard
from Australia that grew approx-
imately five to seven meters long, 
although it is difficult to estimate 
its size due to a lack of complete 
fossil skeletons. The megalania was 
similar to the Komodo dragon, its
closest extant relative, meaning
that it possibly could have been
venomous. However, it is unlikely 
that we will know for sure unless a
skull fossil is discovered. If it  
was indeed venomous, the venom 
would have been a nasty hemotoxin, 
which increases bleeding by stopping
coagulation in the blood.

This prehistoric butcher lived in 
Pleistocene Australia, living up to
Australia's stereotype of deadly 
fauna. It lived in an open semiarid
scrub where it hunted the giant
marsupial Diprotodon and competed 
against other apex predators like
the crocodile Quinkana, the snake 
Wonambi, and the predatory
marsupial Thylacoleo. It also 
possibly lived alongside early
Australian aboriginals, who arrived
on the continent around 65,000 years
ago. These prehistoric people tended
to use fire to hunt; they set fire 
to forests to flush out animals. 
Their presence had a dramatic impact
on the Australian megafauna, 
including megalania, which all went
extinct around 50,000 to 40,000
years ago.