Mosasaurus, the "Lizard of the Meuse
River," was amongst the last of the 
mosasaurs before the Cretaceous-
Paleogene mass extinction event.
With the largest species being up to
seventeen meters long, Mosasaurus 
was a force of nature within the 
oceans of the Cretaceous. Mosasaurus
was more robustly built compared to 
its tylosaurine relatives. Its 
strong tail provided propulsion in
the water while its stiff body 
reduced drag. It suffered from poor 
binocular vision and smell, which 
meant it likely lived near the ocean 
surface where there is more light 
and less pressure instead of in
deeper waters.

Policing the waters of North America
and Western Europe, Mosasaurus was 
an undisputed king of the seas. As 
an apex predator, all trembled in
its presence. Armed and dangerous,
it was a carnivore and piscivore,
feeding upon marine reptiles and
various fishes in the Cretaceous 
Period with its massive, conical 
teeth. It preyed upon turtles and 
ammonites in addition to plesiosaurs 
and smaller fellow mosasaurids and  
at the surface of the ocean. With 
its paddle-like fins and strong 
tail, the water was almost always 
bloody in the world of the 
Mosasaurs.
