Nautiluses, the "Sailors," are 
easily the coolest molluscs of the 
sea, of which Captain Nemo is a fan. 
Like the coelacanth, the nautilus is 
a living fossil that has remained 
virtually the same over millions of 
years, and it is the only member of 
its family to do so. Since its 
introduction during the Triassic 
Period, it survived the Cretaceous-
Paleogene extinction event and still 
lives today. Nowadays, one can find
nautiluses in deep waters of the 
Indo-Pacific Ocean, which spans 
across Southeast Africa, the Indian 
Ocean, Southeast Asia, Oceania, and 
the Pacific. There are also a few 
places where they can be found in 
shallow waters, as well.

Through a system in its living
chamber, the nautilus employs jet
propulsion to adjust buoyancy;
unlike other animals, this lets
it safely move from deep waters
directly to the surface without
damage from the reduced pressure. 
Its poor vision suggests that it
uses its sense of smell for 
foraging and locating potential 
mates. Nautiluses live far longer 
than most cephalopods (twenty years) 
but they typically reach sexual 
maturity at the relatively late age 
of fifteen. These creatures are 
scavengers and opportunistic 
predators, eating the molts of 
lobsters, hermit crabs, and carrion. 
