Phorusrhacos, the "Rag-Thief" or
"Wrinkle Bearer," is a "terror bird"
that is only known from partial
fossils. Its approximate size is
estimated to be two and a half 
meters tall, since with only
fragmentary evidence its size cannot
be said for certain. The meaning of 
its name describes the "wrinkled" 
curve of its lower jaw. Like other 
terror birds, it had a massive
hooked beak that was built for 
consuming meat. How it hunted is
unknown, but it almost certainly
feasted on small mammals. It may 
have used its beak or sharp claws
to deal blows on their unfortunate
prey, or repeatedly beat their poor
victims against the ground like 
their modern relatives seriemas.

During the start of its reign in
Miocene Argentina, Phorusrhacos
ruled grasslands and woodlands, 
stalking around in the search for 
food around the hills that would
eventually become the Andes 
Mountains. It lived alongside four 
other terror birds, so they must 
have evolved to hunt different prey 
- otherwise, they undoubtedly would
have fought with one another. 
Although a fearsome predator, the
Phorusrhacos went extinct before 
the Miocene Epoch ended, and at
present it is not known why. Until
further research is done or new 
fossils are discovered, it will 
continue to be another mystery
paleontology is working to solve.
