Smilodon, the "Knife Tooth," is
commonly referred to as the saber-
toothed tiger despite its very 
distant relations to tigers. It was
a very robust feline, with the 
largest species (Smilodon populator)
weighing in at a whopping four
hundred kilograms. It stood around
120 centimeters tall, which is 
comparable to the height of a tiger. 
Its iconic canines were 28 
centimeters long and relatively 
fragile; they could not be used to 
take down prey but were rather used 
to deliver the killing bite to the 
throat. This, and the fact that 
their powerful bodies were built for
jumping, makes Smilodon into a 
highly efficient killing machine.

All species of Smilodon lived in the
Pleistocene Epoch, covering a 
territory that stretched from North 
to South America. They likely hunted
in packs, working together to bring 
down large mammals in forest and
bush environments. Their proficiency 
in jumping means that they may have 
been ambush predators like many 
modern big cats. However, although 
apex predators, Smilodon faced 
several threats. Ravenous cave lions 
and dire wolves competed with 
Smilodon for the same resources, and 
confrontations were certain. They
also fell victim to the infamous tar 
pits, such as the ones in La Brea,
California. 
