Therizinosaurus, the "Scythe
lizard," was, surprisingly enough, 
likely a herbivore despite its 
intimidating exterior. With a 
maximum length of ten meters and a 
maximum height of four or five 
meters, this freakishly tall 
monstrosity possessed a terrifying 
defining feature: incredibly long 
claws that reached the length of a 
meter. These claws likely provided 
ample protection from the ferocious 
predators that dared to prey upon 
Therizinosaurus. As the last and 
largest of the therizinosaurs, this 
odd animal roamed the lands only a 
few million years before the large 
dinosaurs disappeared from the 
Earth. Because of that, it serves as 
the poster-child for its family, 
Therizinosauridae. 

Roaming what is now modern Mongolia,
Therizinosaurus was among other odd
herbivores and carnivores in 
scrublands near deserts. However, 
sometimes dense rainforests with 
plentiful plantlife and a variety of 
trees provided a suitable habitat 
and wealth of food to 
Therizinosaurus. Its monstruous 
claws were used to reach branches 
and leaves and pull them to its 
mouth. It may have competed with 
its relative Deinocheirus for food,
though this would likely have been
more of an issue in the desert than
the rainforest.
