Triceratops, the "Three Horned
Face," is a dinosaur of particular
interest, being widely represented 
in both entertainment and in the 
fossil record. Its stout, powerful 
body reached lengths of nine meters
and heights of three meters. 
Triceratops was a force of nature 
few reckoned with, emblazoned with
its mighty frill and horns. These 
iconic ornaments grew as it reached
maturity. Triceratops are commonly
depicted using their head gear as 
weapons, but recent theories that
note the presence of blood vessels 
in the skulls suggest that the frill
was most likely used for courtship.

Triceratops shared the warm North
American climates of the 
Maastrichtian age of the Cretaceous
with fearsome foes like the 
Tyrannosaurus. In the event of a 
confrontation, its horns could be 
used to ward off or gore oppontents
into submission. It lived in 
relative harmony with other 
herbivores during its reign before
he mass extinction at the end of the
Cretaceous. It browsed low-hanging 
vegetation with its beak lined with 
rows of teeth, which sheared leaves 
off fibrous plants like palms, 
ferns, and cycads. Due to the large 
amount of Triceratops fossils that 
have been found, it is safe to say 
that Triceratops was one of, if not 
the, most common herbivores of the 
Period.
