Tyrannosaurus rex, the "Tyrant 
Lizard King," is the most famous 
dinosaur in existence, being 
represented in art, literature,
entertainment, etc. With a 
maximum length exceeding twelve 
meters and a height of over three
meters, this creature towered over
humans and many other animals as 
well. Its growth started and ended
slowly, but Tyrannosaurus 
experienced a growth spurt during 
its teenage years. The result was 
the giant creature known and loved 
today. However, like many other 
tyrannosaurs, Tyrannosaurus died 
shortly after reaching maturity and
their infants often died naturally
in the volatile world of the 
Cretaceous. 

Living in the Maastrichtian age, 
just before the extinction of the 
dinosaurs in the Cretaceous, 
Tyrannosaurus was among the last 
great non-avian dinosaurs to roam 
the Earth. In fact, it is the last 
known member of its family Tyranno-
sauridae. It lived across what is 
now North America in warm and humid 
climates alongside a plethora of 
herbivorous animals and small 
theropods. It commonly preyed upon 
famous herbivores such as 
Triceratops and Edmontosaurus. Its 
hollow bones allowed it to move 
quickly and its robust, blade-like 
teeth permitted it to rip into prey, 
mutilating any allegations that it 
may be a simple scavenger.
